Oak
===

Oak is a simple blog generator. The goal is to have a blog backed
up by git (so the content gets versioned) and that the blog itself
is all made up by static content.

Status
------

Oak is alpha software, still under development. This is a preview
release for friends and people who might be interested in it.

Lot of things are still left: a decent set of templates, code
cleanup, clearly define the dict of variables passed to the
templates, test, test, test, ... did I mention test? :)

Design
------

The design principles are:

1. all the blog site is made up of static content, no hole
   for SQL-injection or similar,
1. version controled content, achieved with git,
1. you can write your posts with your favorite $EDITOR,
1. easy syntax for the posts contents, using Markdown.

Implementation
--------------

The implementation of oak is done around a few python classes
and libs.

There is the main script `oak.py` which is the responsible of
generating the blog's content and of initializing the blog
path structure.

We're using external python libraries such as Jinja2 for the 
templates and `python-markdown` for parsing the raw post files.

Git is used to version the blog contents and the whole set of
folders that are involved in the process.

Workflow
--------

Initially, there is one git repo (let's call it Hub) living in
the server which will serve the blog. We have to clone it
somewhere else in the server (will call it Live). Live will
pull from Hub whenever a change occurs in Hub, so new content
gets updated in the Live clone. One of the folders of the repository
is the folder that holds the public content, let's assume it's
called site/. That folder is the one which the webserver has to
publish.

Why don't use the Live clone directly? Using the Hub repository
will allow us to make as many clones as we want, and from any of
that clones we will be able to push new content to the blog.

That behavior is achieved through git hooks.

Features
--------

* Secure
* Lightweight
* Easy to write syntax: Markdown
* Code highlighting: thanks to Pygments
* Small dependency set: just Git, Markdown, Jinja2, Pygments and YAML


